
The issues raised not only questions a political party's conduct but also the integrity of institutions of this nation. Hence a detailed exploration is warranted. 
#### The recent issue of electoral malpractice in Chandigarh is indeed abhorrible and the strictest of actions will be welcome.
# Election commission-
## Spending
Rules regarding spending apply to candidates between date of nomination and date of result declaration - section 77, RPA. There is no cap on expenditure by party - [As parties get an EC raise, the high ambition and low reach of poll expense limits | Political Pulse News - The Indian Express](https://indianexpress.com/article/political-pulse/election-commission-poll-expense-limits-7711932/). The calculation shown in the video wrongly equates the entire donation to party with candidate spending ceiling set by EC, which is misleading. Many other expenses like logistics of events other than elections or party official's salaries etc. for which detailed disclosure has been provided and made public have not been considered.
## Missing control units
Evident from a detailed reading that EC itself has investigated these cases and taken strict measures to address the situation - [EVM found in BJP candidate’s car in Assam, EC explains what happened | Top developments - India Today](https://www.indiatoday.in/elections/story/assam-karimganj-evms-bjp-leader-car-congress-bjp-suspeded-election-commission-latest-news-developments-1786332-2021-04-02). Moreover, interaction between party members and election officials is not something new, at every polling station supporters of each party are present to check the progress continuously - sometimes they provide catering services as well, but regulating this interaction to a level where it does not turn into a favour is crucial which the EC has successfully done.
## Use of armed forces in election campaign
The actual rules and allegations refer to the use of images of military personnel in election propaganda. Such violation were detected by both BJP and AAP and the EC did sent notices to both of them, however no charges were levied because the model code of conduct had not set in. On the issue of raising the matter of airstrikes by the PM - it is not barred by the rules and is indeed a crucial part of the report card of the government - the PM being the *de facto* and political head of the armed forces, the victories and loses of the forces stick to the PM as well.
## Appointment of Election commissioner
As a general rule, non-elected officials should not be responsible for electing people on such an important post. And regulation of public facing politicians is in the hands of voters. Allegations of this nature juvenilize the voters. The discretionary power of Judges is extremely high in this nation, evident from the rampant nepotism in the Higher courts - collegium system, a home invention is unprecedented in any other nation of the world.
# Use of central agencies to silence opposition-
[4,700 cases being probed by ED, only 313 arrested since enactment of PMLA in 2002, Centre tells Supreme Court - The Economic Times (indiatimes.com)](https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/india/4700-cases-being-probed-by-ed-only-313-arrested-since-enactment-of-pmla-in-2002-centre-tells-supreme-court/articleshow/89778332.cms?from=mdr) 
Actions are taken by ED only after the raid is completed and reasons for arrest are also given to the arrested within 24 hours as per the directives of Pankaj Bansal case. Being a part of the opposition or defecting to the ruling party should not exempt you from the laws of the land. I would expect the opposition to mete out similar treatment once they come to power. Also when it comes to whitewashing of politician, everyone is naked in this hamam - AAP does not have any issues in joining hands with congress, the protest against which was the launching pad of its leader. I hold that this practice is wrong, but apparently that's what the politicians feel is correct.
# Biasness of Media-
Unacceptable, but not a new thing. The media is the same, only the godi has changed from UPA to NDA. Indeed it is wrong for anchors to come up with their personal views while running a debate, however, to say that the opposition is not called on the shows or that their news is not covered is blatantly false. eg. the allegations of the video that there was not a single report on Manipur violence can be checked by just a single google search - all major portals have covered it and in fair detail. The tenacity of attacks by the media on the government was lacking, which has generally been the Achilles' heel of Indian media. The nostalgia for an ideal media is akin to the Mandela effect. The censorship of the socialist era was such a beast that you can't even to begin to imagine.  
# Delhi government not having full powers-
"India that is Bharat, shall be a union of states" - this is one of first lines of the constitution. The word "union" and not "federation" was deliberately chosen by Dr. Ambedkar as India has the aspects of a federal polity - like division of powers etc. but is not a federation, as in it is not the result of treaties like other federations like USA or Switzerland(Point by K.T. Shah).
Given that and the fact that the NCT is a union territory, the actions of Union government for proper administration are completely legal.
For the political party, which claims of having done wonders in the union territory of Delhi - traditionally a recipient of disproportionately high funding compared to other cities coupled with the assistance from Union government [When money for other states is given to Delhi, it resembles the imperial seat of an empire – Firstpost](https://www.firstpost.com/india/when-money-for-other-states-is-given-to-delhi-it-resembles-the-imperial-seat-of-an-empire-2832392.html), the real challenge will be surpassing or even replicating that model in Punjab.
# Protests not being allowed-
Nobody is denying the right to protest. What is being denied is the right to cause a ruckus on tractors. Farmers are more than welcome to walk into Delhi or even use public transportation to get there. But what they are adamant on doing is akin more to a medieval siege. The statement of Punjab and Haryana High Court -[Punjab: HC raps farm protesters, says can’t use tractor trolleys on highways - Hindustan Times](https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hc-raps-farm-protesters-says-can-t-use-tractor-trolleys-on-highways-101708427244576.html). Protesting is not about hijacking the state and threatening the state with violence, which is why Mahatma Gandhi despite some shortcomings was a genius when it came to public protest. Reading history of those movements will also explain that why this particular movement failed to become a mass movement which could have welcomed non-farmers or non-residents of the MSP belt.
# Majoritarianism being bad for and different from democracy-
The example of RWA associations is a strawman argument peddled by those who still believe that a savage Indian public has been reigned in by a constitution imposed upon them from the top by a group of elites. The ideals of the constitution are preserved not because of their forced imposition, but because of them being the shared sacrosanct values that the voters also hold dear.






